   338	
   339	\section{Empirical consequences}
   340	\label{sec:5:empirical-consequences}
   341	
   342	\subsection{Gradient judgments, discrete categories}
   343	\label{subsec:5:gradient-discrete}
   344	
   345	The discreteness problem has a close cousin: the gradient-judgment problem. Speakers' acceptability judgments are notoriously gradient. Asked to rate sentences on a 1--7 scale, they distribute across the range, with clear acceptability at the extremes and uncertainty in the middle. If categories are discrete, why are judgments gradient?
   346	
   347	The hyperreal framework suggests an answer. Distinguish the category from its measurement, the ontology from its epistemology.
   348	
   349	Grammaticality~-- the property of conforming to the grammar~-- is discrete. A sentence either satisfies the constraints or it doesn't. The boundary between grammatical and ungrammatical is sharp, located at a hyperreal threshold in some underlying dimension (perhaps accumulated constraint violation, or distance from prototype, or processing cost).
   350	
   351	Acceptability~-- the measured response in judgment tasks~-- reflects grammaticality filtered through noise. Processing difficulty, frequency effects, task demands, individual variation, and measurement error all intervene between the discrete category and the gradient response. This is where the maintenance framework bites: grammaticality is the maintained category, acceptability is a noisy instrument whose bias terms are themselves mechanism-sensitive (frequency shapes entrenchment, task framing activates different basin configurations, exposure history shapes where the boundary lies for each speaker).
   352	
   353	One reason this distinction is so easy to lose sight of is that the phenomenology is asymmetric. When a sentence is well-formed, nothing in particular announces itself: processing just runs. The felt data are mostly negative~-- the \enquote{catch} of a violation, the extra effort, the moment of repair. There is, in that sense, no positive feeling of grammaticality, just as there is no feeling of having sufficient oxygen; the experiences that demand attention are the absences. This is why boundary detection is cognitively natural: violations have a signature, conformity is typically silent.
   354	
   355	A second reason is methodological. Temperature isn't something you see; it's a theoretical magnitude inferred from what thermometers do. Likewise grammaticality is a latent property that we access only through instruments~-- judgments, reaction times, eye movements, priming, production choices~-- each of which can misread the target in both directions, yielding false comfort (illusory well-formedness) or false alarm (grammatical but degraded). The point is clearest in \emph{satiation} effects: repeated exposure can raise acceptability for initially degraded strings, even though it's implausible that the grammar itself has been rewritten over the course of a short experimental session. Satiation is therefore not a nuisance; it's direct evidence that the mapping from grammaticality to felt acceptability is plastic, and that we shouldn't identify the construct with any one measurement channel.
   356	
   357	Not all of these factors work the same way. Random fluctuations~-- trial-to-trial variation in attention, incidental processing load, measurement noise~-- blur the signal without shifting it. But frequency effects and task demands can systematically shift the mapping from grammaticality to acceptability. A borderline construction may be judged more acceptable if it's high-frequency than if it's low-frequency, even when both are equally grammatical. Instructions emphasizing naturalness may locate the boundary differently than instructions emphasizing correctness. These are biases, not noise. The two-layer model accommodates them: different contexts may activate different effective basin configurations, shifting where tolerance breaks down.
   358	
   359	This predicts:
   360	\begin{itemize}
   361	\item Clear cases cluster at scale extremes (1s and 7s), because items deep in the grammatical or ungrammatical basin are stably categorized and noise doesn't flip them.
