   410	\subsection{Summary: discreteness without essence}
   411	\label{subsec:5:discreteness-summary}
   412	
   413	The discreteness problem asked: if underlying properties are continuous, how do discrete categories emerge?
   414	
   415	The answer combines two components:
   416	
   417	Structure (hyperreal model): Discrete boundaries arise from scale-dependent tolerance. Changes that are negligible at the current scale preserve categorization; changes that are appreciable can flip it. In this formalization, the boundary is sharp, located at a hyperreal threshold, epistemically inaccessible but structurally determinate. Dynamic discreteness is like a snow-covered streetcar right-of-way: the snowfall is continuous, but the rails impose two stubbornly sharp tracks that exist only because of the system underneath them. The category isn't holding still. It's being \emph{held}~-- by mechanisms operating on multiple timescales, by basins that resist perturbation, by forces that push deviants back toward the norm.
   418	
   419	Maintenance (HPC framework): The basin structure persists because mechanisms~-- acquisition, entrenchment, alignment, transmission, functional pressure~-- hold properties together. Without these mechanisms, categories would dissolve. With them, the clustering is stable even though boundaries are fuzzy at the edges.
   420	
   421	Together, these explain how categories can be:
   422	\begin{itemize}
   423	\item Real: maintained by causal mechanisms, not merely stipulated.
   424	\item Discrete: with sharp boundaries, not gradient membership.
   425	\item Fuzzy at the edges: because tolerance fails near boundaries, producing instability and apparent gradience.
   426	\item Stable: because mechanisms maintain the basin structure across time.
   427	\item Capable of change: because mechanisms can shift, basins can migrate, boundaries can move.
   428	\end{itemize}
   429	
   430	This is what the essentialist wanted~-- real structure, sharp boundaries, determinacy~-- without what the essentialist thought was required: definitions, necessary and sufficient conditions, essences. The categories are real because they're maintained, not because they're defined. The boundaries are sharp because tolerance is scale-dependent, not because some property is binary. The determinacy is causal-structural, not definitional.
   431	
   432	The nominalist was right that essences don't exist. The nominalist was wrong to conclude that determinacy fails. The HPC framework, formalised via hyperreal tolerance, shows how to have both: natural kinds without essences, discrete categories from continuous substrates, sharp boundaries that we can't quite see. Dynamic discreteness and real gradience~-- the chapter's twin themes~-- turn out to be two sides of one insight.
   433	
   434	\textsc{Definiteness thread.} This chapter predicts a signature phenomenon for definiteness: judgments about borderline cases (e.g., weak definites like \mention{go to the hospital}) should show higher variance than judgments about clear cases, because they sit near the boundary where tolerance fails. Register shift (task context, formality) should modulate variance without eliminating the underlying discreteness. The prediction would be falsified if borderline definiteness showed no variance asymmetry, suggesting the category lacks the basin structure this chapter describes.
